Hello, dear colleagues!
My practical experience allows me to share with you some of the techniques that have been developed over this time.
Today we will discuss the topic of the promotion of goods, the promotion of new goods to the market or existing goods.
The demand for advertising from the owners of companies is growing every year.
Promotion of goods to the market, support of loyalty of customers and, as a result, increase of profitability of the company
become the main goal and the main guarantee of the success of the company on the market.
Only a competent setting of goals, as well as clear planning, allows to achieve successful results.
Today we will discuss the various promotion tools that will allow you to achieve success and stand on the high competitive market.
There are several main tools that we will discuss.
The first is advertising.
We will look at the existing advertising tools, which of them are more effective, less effective
and what are the trends of development in the advertising market today.
The next tool that we will consider is, of course, PR.
PR helps companies to better present themselves on the market, position themselves,
and also look more positive in the eyes of the public,
thus maintaining loyal customers and optimizing costs for advertising and marketing.
The next tool is sales promotion.
Sales promotion is the most effective tool for short-term goals, for increasing the company's turnover.
We will also consider several practical methods that will allow you to achieve such results.
The next tools are direct marketing and personal sales,
which are also quite effective if you act according to the given algorithm.
In conclusion, we will look at how to calculate the effectiveness of certain events.
This is perhaps the key point and key issue for marketers and advertisers in companies.
Marketing communication is divided into at least two parts today.
You can see it on the slide.
This is ATL or above the line, and below the line.
There is a legend that one of the managers of one of the large companies,
they say it was in Procter & Gamble, decided to calculate the costs for marketing.
He calculated the costs for exhibitions, advertising, media,
additional events that need to be held to support sales.
He drew a line, but remembered that he forgot a few more things.
This is the promotion of sales, this is the holiday of the city.
Thus, having calculated the final cost, he received all the costs for marketing.
Since then, all costs for marketing are divided into two parts.
You can see this division on the slide.
Although today this line is erased, and today there is no clear division.
Nevertheless, in the field of marketing, in the theory of marketing, it got its continuation.
Everything above the line is considered a general advertising,
and it includes advertising in the media, advertising on television,
advertising on the Internet, and transport advertising.
Everything below the line is related to the promotion of sales,
promotion in trade channels, promotion of the end consumer,
exhibitions, sponsorship, all this is related to BTL.
Thus, in this division, we will consider these tools.
First of all, let's talk about market trends, advertising costs.
On the slides, you can see what trend of advertising costs exists today,
and even the forecast of market experts, what will happen in the future.
We see that a large part is taken by advertising on television.
Despite the fact that it becomes less and less effective,
since the information flows are very large,
and many people simply do not perceive this advertising,
often switch channels, which we often do.
Nevertheless, advertising on television, its costs, its turnover will grow.
And they will grow due to the fact that new goods will be promoted,
the market will be more competitive,
and more and more television channels will appear.
Naturally, due to this, the turnover of advertising will grow.
Advertising is approximately stagnant in mass media,
in other, printed, industry publications.
Nevertheless, the turnover with the growth of the market will increase in the same way,
the share will remain approximately the same.
And if we look at the costs of external advertising,
we see that the share of external advertising is decreasing,
and will decrease, because the streets of our cities
are already practically overflowing with external advertising.
There is a tendency to reduce such advertising.
Let's also pay attention to the trend of the development of the BTL market.
The BTL market is growing, and in three years,
looking at the table, you will see that in three years it has grown by two times.
This is a very serious trend.
It comes to us from the Western market.
In the West, about half of the costs are general advertising,
and about half are costs for BTL.
In our Russian market, the trend is different.
To date, only 5-10, a maximum of 15% of the most advanced companies
spend on BTL.
Nevertheless, as you can see, they are growing dynamically.
Why is this happening?
This happens for several reasons, and we will discuss them now.
The first reason is a large number of branded goods with the same properties.
We come to the store and see a lot of products under different brands,
but they are practically impossible to distinguish by properties.
They differ in price, they differ in name, but have the same characteristics.
As a result, we have a hard time choosing what to buy.
BTL helps us choose a product, because there are auctions,
because we are reminded of a particular product, and we pay attention to it again.
BTL gives immediate results in sales.
The next reason is the lack of an original image idea for advertising.
Yes, creativity is great, and it is wonderful to come up with a new idea.
Many companies are now making a breakthrough in this market,
but as we can see, competition is getting tougher.
It is very easy to repeat this idea, and competitors do it.
By repeating the idea, creativity and exclusivity are lost.
And we merge again in a single stream with all the other products.
Therefore, to maintain creativity, you need a lot of costs.
Various agencies, different views on a particular product.
That is why we are again inclined to BTL advertising,
which allows you to achieve immediate results.
The next reason is the lack of trust in Russian managers
who play the leading role of the trademark.
Yes, there are Coca-Cola managers, there are Pepsi-Cola managers,
who have been developing their image for years,
and now they cost billions of dollars.
Of course, not every manager believes that his brand
can be just as famous and profitable.
Although the tendency to think that the cost of non-material assets
is increasing, some companies are starting to do this,
but this is only a small step.
Unfortunately, many managers do not go for this,
considering the costs of image advertising as just a waste of money.
After all, costs for image must be made constantly.
Single-time investments will not help to preserve the image of companies.
Many brands are forgotten only because they stopped spending money on them.
Naturally, not every owner is ready to constantly invest in such resources.
The next reason for the increase in costs for BTL
is the desire to pay for costs in the short term.
BTL shares allow you to get immediate results,
as we have already said, and pay for your costs immediately.
Naturally, costs for image will not be paid immediately,
because this is a long-term strategy of the company.
Not every owner, not every company manager
is ready to invest their money for a long time.
Why? Because today the economy is unstable.
It has become much more stable than it was five years ago,
but, compared to the Western market,
we are still at the stage of waiting for some crisis,
some legislative changes,
which does not allow owners and companies
to hope for a long-term return of their invested money,
their invested financial resources.
The next reason is speculation about the desire of the buyer to receive bonuses.
This is psychology. We all love gifts.
We are pleased to receive them, as it is pleasant to give.
Therefore, any programs to stimulate sales
have such a good result, such a success,
because all customers, including you and me, buy gifts.
The next point is to eliminate the seasonal factor
when selling products.
Any product is seasonal.
Some products are sold for half a year,
and some are not sold for half a year.
Take, for example, mosquito cream.
We can buy it in spring, in summer,
but we do not need it in winter or in autumn.
And any other products are also subject to the influence of seasonality.
The programs to stimulate sales allow us to do a lot.
The first is to increase sales in the low season
in order to stabilize the situation in the company,
and in the high season to take away an additional share of the market from the competitor
or at least keep your share.
The programs to stimulate sales also help.
The next reason is to establish a close relationship with the consumer,
or, as they call it in the West, personalization.
This trend is also going to us from the West,
and there, today, the fashion for personalization has captured all the minds of business.
It is still going to us,
but it is a trend of the future,
when we will have to go out to almost every consumer individually
and meet their requirements.
Naturally, we are allocating segments today
and trying to adjust our proposals to the requirements of a certain group of consumers,
but in the future we will be getting closer and closer to the individual requests of our clients.
Let's look at the place of integrated marketing communications
or promotion tools in the general planning structure.
Here is a slide of the structure of the marketing plan,
a standard document that determines the company's activities for the entire next year.
And despite the fact that this document is called a marketing plan,
it determines the activities of the entire company,
because all the structures involved in it,
who it can be,
this is, of course, the sales department and the marketing department,
this is, of course, the procurement department,
because they buy products at the requirements that the consumer or market presents to us.
This is, of course, the quality department, which monitors the quality of our products.
This is the production department, if we have it,
this is the department that produces our products.
The next department is the personnel department.
Why does it participate in the marketing plan?
Because it provides qualified personnel for achieving the set goals.
And, in fact, this is how we can say about any department that works in the company.
I probably forgot about the finance department,
it is also key in the implementation of the marketing plan,
because it provides financing for the developed document.
Well, the marketing plan is a fairly standard document,
and it is divided into two parts.
The first part is the analysis that marketers do in order to understand where we should go.
And the second part is, of course, the development of the very strategies
on the basis of which the company will operate.
The first of them is the assortment strategy,
when we determine the assortment,
by which we will position and promote ourselves in the market.
The second strategy is the price one,
when we determine at what price, with what discounts or prices,
we will offer our products on the market.
The third strategy is distribution.
Here we consider which channels of sales we will sell our goods and offer it on the market.
And the fourth is just the communication strategy or promotion strategy,
in fact, how we will present ourselves,
how we will talk to our customers about ourselves
and what events we will do in order to implement our plan.
What is included in the communication policy?
Four main tools of promotion are included in the communication policy.
The first is, of course, advertising, and we will talk about it separately.
The second point is the promotion of sales,
these are all events that relate to BTL.
The third point is, of course, PR, and it is highlighted by a separate tool,
because it is really a separate tool of the company,
which allows you to optimize resources and support,
one way or another, to have companies on the market.
And the fourth section, the fourth tool of marketing communications,
is, of course, personal sales.
Personal sales also relate to marketing communications,
because, in fact, in the process of sales,
communication with a specific consumer is carried out.
Let's consider what communication policy is.
Communication policy is the whole set of means
that unites the interaction with all objects of our communications.
The objects are presented on the slide,
and we will talk about each of them separately now.
The first object is, of course, the employees of the company or the personnel of the company.
Very often we forget about this and do not work with our personnel,
but, in fact, the whole communication with our clients begins with them.
And you need to work especially carefully with the personnel.
Try to ask your sales managers a question,
what is best for sale?
Well, there will be one of the following answers.
The first is what I know, the second is what I like personally,
and the third is what is known.
The products are always sold well, and you need to make the least effort.
That is why our task is to convey to the personnel of the company
the attractiveness of the product that we promote and sell.
I will give an example from my experience.
When I worked in one of the companies on the alcohol market,
in addition to the alcohol sector, we also had a tobacco sector.
And in the canteen of the company cigars were sold,
which the company itself offered for sale on the market.
But they did not do very well on the market,
they were not used by the active demand.
And we set ourselves the goal of finding out what was going on,
why they were not so popular,
and tried to start, of course, with the personnel of the company.
We simply organized a tasting of these cigars during a lunch break,
when we invited all the employees of the company,
who naturally smoke, to try to taste these cigars
and fill out the forms that were previously developed.
We killed two birds with one stone.
The first of them was, of course, a survey,
in fact, a market survey,
given that there are quite a lot of employees in the company,
about 2,500 people,
and they represent completely different categories of people,
starting with loaders and ending with top managers of the company.
Naturally, we managed to survey all categories of potential clients.
This is the first point.
And the second point, naturally, was to make such an internal PR,
because people, having tried this product,
first began to buy it from wall companies,
and secondly, to recommend it to their colleagues, friends, acquaintances,
because they themselves knew that it was attractive,
it was interesting, and they liked it.
And such points are very important for the company,
because the more correctly we tell about the product,
the more correctly we position it within the company,
the more it will be sold on the market.
This is the very first step that needs to be taken.
The second point, or the second object of our communications,
is, of course, consumers.
Well, what can I say about this?
The main communications are aimed at our consumers,
because it depends on them whether our company will work successfully on the market,
whether our product will be in demand and loyalty,
whether clients will come again and again for what we offer on the market.
We will talk about this separately.
The next object is marketing intermediaries,
or, to be more precise, our dealers, distributors,
wholesalers, retail networks.
This is a trading channel,
this is the channel that helps to deliver our product to the end consumer.
And here, active events of trade marketing are used.
This is a very important point,
because without this, today, you will simply not be competitive on the market.
We will consider several interesting discount programs,
which can be used for the trade marketing channel.
The next point is our suppliers.
Naturally, suppliers are very important for the company,
because if relations suddenly deteriorate,
or something happens to our suppliers,
we no longer have the products that we have conceived and that we offer on the market.
It is imperative to maintain a very loyal and good relationship with suppliers.
After all, not only the quality of your product depends on this,
but also discounts for you, cost-effectiveness.
The more loyal your relationship with suppliers,
the more likely it is that the cost-effectiveness of your product will be lower and lower.
The next object is competitors.
It is strange to talk about competitors in communication policy,
but nevertheless, let's say.
With competitors, you need to follow the rules of the game.
You need to have a civilized competition.
And we are gradually approaching this,
although not all competitors behave civilizedly on the market.
Nevertheless, my favorite saying is about competitors as about dead.
Either good or nothing.
Here is the compliance with the rules of the game.
Another object is contact audiences,
or those who recommend our product to the market,
but may not sell it themselves.
These may be agents of influence,
these may be people sitting on the streams of information,
these may be famous people who drive your cars,
dress in your clothes,
and thus promote one or another way of life.
With them, of course, you also need to maintain a constant relationship.
Here are also the media that you invite to your conferences,
briefings, events,
and they cover the life of your company in their sources,
provide information to the buyer.
Let's take a look at all the instruments that have already been listed.
The first tool is advertising.
What is it?
Well, this is not a personal message through the media,
television, radio.
Any source of printed information,
industry advertising,
or general glossy magazines,
which we sometimes buy.
Advertising, of course, has its pros and cons.
The first plus is a wide coverage.
Imagine you ordered, made a video on TV,
showed it in good time,
and now you have a coverage of several million people in our country.
Very tempting and very interesting.
Moreover, advertising is repeated,
and this is also a big plus.
Why?
There is such a law in psychology.
If you have seen or heard one or another ad seven times,
even if it made a negative impression on you,
it doesn't matter,
this information is already recorded in your subconscious.
When you come to the store,
your subconscious works for you.
It chooses those moments, those brands,
which were already known to you.
I'll give you an example.
You probably all watched the cartoon Troisprostokvashino.
A rather popular cartoon.
So, in this cartoon there is such a plot.
When Uncle Fyodor and his father brought a cat home,
Mom saw this cat and said to Dad,
choose, either a cat or me.
What did Dad answer?
Maybe you remember?
Dad replied literally,
of course, I choose you.
I've known you for a long time,
and this is the first time I see this cat.
That's how we act in the store as buyers, as consumers.
Our subconscious chooses what we have already seen or known.
Therefore, of course, from the point of view of promotion,
from the point of view of advertising,
it's great if your product is well-known.
If not, advertising will help with this.
Repetitiveness allows you to ensure
the recognition of your product on the shelf among other products.
But, of course, advertising has its downsides.
First, inadaptability in the contact process.
What is it?
Your video came out, you see something is wrong,
but you can't change anything anymore,
the ad has already come out.
Or you printed something in the publication,
you didn't like the result,
but you can't change anything.
That's it, your work on this is over.
You can only take part in one or another mistake next time.
And the costs are quite high,
because advertising is usually expensive.
The next point is low informativeness.
You can't give a lot of information in advertising,
because it will be overloaded,
and people will simply not perceive it.
Therefore, it is very difficult to give information about a new product in an advertising video.
Information articles help,
but this is already a mixture of advertising and PR.
Okay, let's move on.
The next tool is the stimulus of sales.
A very good tool, very interesting,
as we have already discussed today,
gives immediate results.
Let's look at the first definition.
These are short-term methods of sales stimulation.
Accordingly, the tool is aimed directly at increasing the sales of the company.
What are the advantages of this tool?
The first is, of course, high efficiency.
Because, as we said today,
everyone loves gifts, discounts, bonuses, and so on.
And this is exactly what the stimulus of sales works on.
Almost most customers are affected
and react well to various programs.
The second point.
When stimulating sales, we can convey a very large amount of information.
Why?
For example, promoters work.
If they are instructed well,
they can convey a lot of information,
tell about the product,
show its advantages, applicability, and so on.
And, of course, the probability of buying increases in this case.
And, of course, another plus is high adaptability.
We can change something in the process of contact with you.
Well, if not us, then the promoters.
That is, they adapt to the desire of the buyer.
This also plays a big role and has a good impact on sales.
But, of course, there are also disadvantages to stimulating sales.
The first is, of course, high cost.
We spend a lot on the program for stimulating,
because there is a very large list of costs.
Despite the fact that the effect comes at once,
we also need to spend well.
The next point is short-term.
The program for stimulating sales has passed,
the effect is over,
and we need to think about further actions again
in order not to lag behind competitors.
This, of course, is also a minus.
That is, stimulating sales does not have a long-term effect.
And the next point is relatively low coverage.
We cannot, as in advertising,
make contacts with several million of our consumers at once.
We choose trading points,
we choose companies with which we carry out
certain programs for stimulating.
Therefore, coverage is limited here.
There is also one minus that I would like to mention.
Our buyers or our clients get used to stimulation.
Sometimes the effect is as follows.
Without stimulation, they do not want to buy a product.
That is why we need to alternate,
change the program for stimulation
in order not to cause habits.
The next point or the next tool is personal sales.
When we offer a product to a particular client
who will use this product.
A wonderful communication tool.
What are the advantages of this tool?
The first is high adaptability.
When we are together with the client,
we can understand his desires, hopes,
offer what he wants
and adjust the conversation in order to get the result.
The next big advantage is the possibility of signing a deal.
We immediately held negotiations
and we can immediately sign a contract or a contract
and make a deal.
And the next point is confidentiality.
What is the advantage of being alone with a client?
You can offer him additional conditions
that no one will know about except you.
There are also disadvantages.
The first is a small coverage.
If you have 2 or 5 thousand clients,
you simply will not be able to personally talk to everyone.
It will be unrealistic.
Therefore, of course, a small coverage.
You can only sell directly to key clients.
Or only if the number of your clients is strictly limited.
The next point is organizational difficulties.
Each client needs to get there,
make his own contract,
adjust to individual conditions.
This creates additional difficulties, of course,
but nevertheless, personal sales remain an effective tool
for promotion and sales of products.
And one more very important point
is the need for professionals.
If you send a person who is not a professional
to an important negotiation,
your negotiations may fail.
And often personal sales,
when we hold personal sales,
large sums are at stake.
And it is better not to allow non-professionals
to make a deal.
The next tool we will talk about
is PR or public communication.
It is a very interesting tool.
And its main feature is that
it is not aimed at increasing sales directly.
This is the only tool, perhaps,
from which you cannot demand an increase in sales tomorrow.
This is a work on the image of the company.
This is a work on the impact,
on the feelings, thoughts of our clients,
on increasing loyalty.
We hold PR-sessions
and thus maintain contact with our target audience.
It is a very important tool,
but we need to understand that
tomorrow, of course,
our sales may not increase.
Although, of course,
we must use this tool
to develop the image of companies on the market,
to maintain our competitiveness.
I can give the following example as a comparison.
Imagine that you want to increase your image.
You buy a very expensive suit and wear it.
But this does not mean
that tomorrow you will earn a million dollars.
Of course, this will work on your image,
but not immediately.
This is how public communication or PR works.
And this tool has its pros and cons.
Let's look at them.
The main advantages are, of course, a large coverage.
These promotions can be held en masse,
with the involvement of the media,
television, various print publications,
which will cover your promotions.
And this is a powerful emotional impact.
This is the main advantage,
because it is emotions that are best remembered by a person.
We let them through,
they remain in our soul,
they remain pleasant memories.
It is these memories that then encourage
you to treat a particular company well,
to buy a particular product.
This is the main advantage of PR.
What are the cons?
Cons are high cost,
because PR promotions cannot be cheap.
We usually invest a lot
to hold such promotions.
The next point is, again, the need for professionals.
I recommend, as a specialist,
not to do this on your own,
but to contact a specialized agency.
Because here you need sociologists, psychologists,
in order to hold this promotion properly,
so that everything is clearly planned,
and everything goes smoothly.
And most importantly, to give your result,
to be remembered by the end consumers.
And one more point.
This is, of course, a complex technology,
which is why professionals will do everything better
than the company itself.
Today we have discussed the main tools
that are the tools of communication policy.
Throughout the course,
we will now go into more detail
in advertising, sales, PR, and personal sales.
We will look at the main practical methods
and tools of this or that kind.
Advertising
Well, let's first look at advertising.
Let's look at the main types of advertising
that various companies in the market use now.
And these types of advertising are divided into three main groups.
The first is general advertising,
which refers to television, mass media,
and information aimed at any audience.
The second part is industry advertising,
which refers to industry media,
corporate publications, and so on.
And the third group is new types of advertising
that somehow invade our lives,
make changes, and help this industry develop.
Let's start with general advertising.
What is general advertising?
What is effective and what is not very effective for work?
The first is, of course, television advertising.
As we have already said today,
this is very effective advertising
because it is repeated and allows us to remember
and stay in the memory of our end consumers.
But here you need to pay attention to the following point.
If you advertise on television in the regions of the Russian Federation,
and our country is large,
we sell our goods in different cities.
So if you promote your goods in another city,
not the one you live in,
pay attention to the control system.
Because today there is a tendency to steal.
Stealing, of course, in quotation marks,
but nevertheless they steal our time,
which we have paid for advertising.
They put their news there,
and the general advertising,
for which time has been paid, does not come out.
And your consumer just does not see it.
Therefore, if you are engaged in such events,
please control, ensure control
of the release of your advertising
at the time when it was planned.
Advertising leaflets.
Well, actually, everyone is familiar with the tool.
You are surrounded by leaflets from the city or from the transport.
You are given them in your hands,
you are thrown into mailboxes.
Sometimes it irritates us.
Nevertheless, in relation to its cost,
advertising leaflets work very well.
And about 3-5% of customers react to these leaflets.
And this is a very good way out.
Therefore, if your product fits
such a specificity,
where you can advertise yourself in this way,
and these are services, this is a product of popular consumption,
it fits very well here, you can easily use it.
The next point is advertising in the media.
Various ads, information advertising,
advertising blocks or modules in general magazines.
Of course, they also work well,
but it is especially great when you put on the ad
and it is supported by advertising in other sources,
for example, on television,
or supported by promotion campaigns,
when there is a complex impact.
Advertising in the media has its own peculiarity.
If you give it only once, it will not be remembered.
It will just be wasted money.
At least you need to give such an ad at least three times.
Better, of course, more often.
But it is important to keep it in your head,
in the thoughts, in the knowledge of your customers.
The next source or next tool
is outdoor advertising.
Outdoor advertising is also a good tool for promotion.
In general, outdoor advertising
tells about the actions carried out,
for example, in a particular store.
Sale, discount, receiving gifts.
It works very well,
because the place of sale and the idea of ​​the promotion are announced there.
Customers see it and go to a particular store.
It is also great to carry out image support in outdoor advertising,
when you somehow remind about yourself,
about your brand, about your company.
If you have other goals,
for example, to bring a new product to the market,
then, in fact,
it is risky to give outdoor advertising.
Just risky.
Because without knowing the product,
it is unlikely that customers will associate your trademark
with your product and it is unlikely that they will remember it.
This, of course, can be done within a general advertising campaign,
integrated, which runs through all sources.
Then at least some kind of association and support
will be available to customers.
If this is the only means you are using,
then most likely the money will be spent in vain.
The next type of advertising is advertising in transport.
In buses, trolleys, trams,
metro, minibuses, taxis,
advertising is now appearing.
Yes, advertising in transport works well,
because a person is forced to be in a closed space
while he is going to his stop.
He looks at the walls, monitors,
everything that is there.
Of course, this works well.
The only subtlety of advertising is to effectively give
the product or the point of sale
that is located along the movement of this transport line.
Otherwise, the buyer,
when leaving the transport,
will simply forget about your product,
The next point is industry advertising.
Let's see what is related to industry advertising.
Of course, this is industry advertising
on specialized television.
For example, cable television,
there are some special programs
that relate to your industry.
For example, medical products,
you can advertise in medical programs,
in specialized programs.
It works very well,
because it reaches the target audience of your clients.
The next interesting point
or interesting trend that is gaining momentum
is the development of corporate publications,
corporate magazines, corporate newspapers.
Many companies are now doing this.
Here are the main conditions.
If you want to publish a publication,
it should not exceed 999 copies,
because if you make 1000,
you will need to license and register,
and this is additional funds and additional costs.
Actually, 999 copies allows you
to develop and produce printed publications
such as magazines and newspapers
within the company,
and the company supports this.
The company provides internal PR,
supports image,
and allows customers to get acquainted
with the release of new products,
with various programs,
with winners of certain competitions.
It works very well.
If you have such an opportunity or a desire,
it is very convenient to advertise,
to tell about your company,
to remind about your existence,
to tell about the release of new products,
how they solve certain problems of clients,
to write about some problematic articles.
This is a very good effect in corporate magazines,
because the specialists who turn to them
are looking for answers to certain questions.
The next point is to distribute all the information
that we have already listed
at the corporate exhibitions, fairs, conferences.
This is very effective and profitable,
because you do not spend additional funds
and thus you distribute information
about your company, again,
specifically for the target audience.
The next direction is new types of advertising,
which allow advertising industries to develop,
not stand still, to bring out all new interesting products,
to attract the attention of end consumers,
because new types stand out among all the others.
The first thing I would like to say
is multimedia.
There is a very interesting trend now.
Many companies develop multimedia presentations,
develop games in which the client
follows a certain path, constantly meeting products
along the way of the game.
Either it is catalogs or presentations,
which are animated and very interesting for viewing.
In each of us lives a child.
Maybe somewhere deep, but nevertheless.
This helps to influence not only knowledge,
but also the consumer's feelings,
because living in a certain environment,
experiencing a certain game,
a certain information, a person remembers
the information and product of your company very well.
The next type of advertising,
which is distributed in the Internet system
by various signs, geographically,
ethnically, professionally,
is various associations, various clubs,
which are now being created.
You can promote your product in one way or another,
getting your audience in the same way.
The next very interesting point is
the development of blogs in the Internet system.
This is not only an advertising source,
but also an information source.
Many serious corporations have already actively
engaged in the blogosphere system.
Blogs grow daily by several thousand additional
users. Naturally, in such a large field of information,
the first thing you can do is to analyze
how your product is perceived, whether your customers
like it or not, what they say about it.
Moreover, there is no censorship,
which is good for the developers,
for the manufacturers of the product.
They can see and hear the very first information
coming from the first mouth, as it is called.
This is a very good way to promote the blogosphere.
You can launch your information there,
launch a discussion of a particular topic,
which will remind about your brand
and promote your product.
The next point is free boards in the Internet system.
Advertising boards have existed for a long time,
but nevertheless work well.
The advertising system for the sale or purchase
of a product in a particular region
helps us to see all the requests
in a particular place in a particular region
and, accordingly, to promote our product
with almost minimal costs.
Another new advertising option
is a running line.
It may be not so new,
but today we see big screens
with multimedia ads,
advertising videos and a running line,
which allows us to provide information
about our product.
Another interesting trend is that
today in many cities,
according to the experience of Europe,
special boards are being introduced
at public transport stops,
which is a new trend.
Nevertheless, even there is a running line
and you can provide information
about your nearest shopping center
or a possible promotion in a particular place.
A customer can easily reach the shopping center
and participate in your promotion
or buy your product.
This is also a new trend
in the advertising industry.
The next thing I would like to show
is a method of choosing an advertiser.
There are many of them,
but how to choose the most effective one?
I want to suggest you to consider
the method of choosing an advertiser,
what to focus on,
what to stop,
and how to choose an advertiser.
I want to show you this method
using the example of the elite alcohol market.
We chose advertisers for the end user,
not for the specialists in this market,
but for the end user.
We had three options.
The first one is the industry magazines.
There are many industry magazines,
such as the Wine Club,
which can be read by the customers
in the specialized shops.
There is also a TV channel
where we can advertise our product.
However, there is a special feature.
According to the law,
you cannot advertise alcohol products
on TV screens.
If we decide to do this,
we will have to look for some other options.
The third option is the media,
such as newspapers.
It is not interesting to advertise alcohol products
in the newspapers,
but there you need your own approach.
You need to find interesting stories,
historical events, facts
and the way of life of the consumer.
We chose these three options
and we had to decide
where we will present ourselves,
where it is more profitable,
where it is more interesting and where it is better.
We chose the following criteria for the assessment.
The first criterion is the volume of the publication.
How many customers can apply to this media?
If you look at the table,
you will see that the largest audience
is television, newspapers and the press.
The next criterion is the volume of the appeal.
This is the volume that shows
how many of the end consumers
will watch this newspaper.
Here you can see that newspapers and newspapers
account for a little more than television.
The next criterion is the audience of the carrier.
Here we look at the main audience.
We see that in specialized magazines
the main audience is the elite alcohol market specialists.
If we take television or newspapers,
there are, of course, end consumers.
Our goal in this assessment is, of course,
end consumers.
The next criterion is the probability of getting acquainted.
That is, the probability that people will get to your information,
read it, see it, hear it, and so on.
The greatest probability of getting acquainted
is, of course, industry magazines,
because people take them on purpose
to read, watch, and so on.
The next criterion is the probability of getting acquainted
is, of course, television,
because if people watch this program,
they will see our advertising, our product.
The least likely to get acquainted is, of course, newspapers.
Newspapers are large, there are many strips,
and the probability is very small
that our customer will read one or another note
or see one or another ad or one or another interesting story.
The next criterion is the rate of accumulation.
Here we assessed
how often a certain program, newspaper, or magazine was published.
That is, how often this information
will be accumulated by our customers.
And here the rate of accumulation
is the lowest, of course, for an industry magazine,
because it is published only once a month.
The next criterion is the cost of advertising space.
Well, of course, the cost is the most expensive for television.
The second place is for industry magazines,
the cost of space is quite high,
and the third place is for newspapers.
And the last criterion is the useful audience and the degree of penetration.
What is this criterion?
This criterion shows how many of our clients' audience
we target advertising.
And here you see that the largest percentage
is, of course, television.
And the smallest is industry magazines,
because among those who will read these magazines
there are very few end consumers.
When we assessed all the criteria,
we carried out the so-called scaling.
That is, we determined the scale according to each criterion
in order to score.
We scored, added these points,
and as a result we got a total score,
according to which we actually determined
the most attractive media carrier.
In the example presented,
the largest point was received by television.
And, in fact, we did.
We advertised our product in the program «Столько одному».
And even the fact that it was not allowed to advertise alcohol
did not prevent us, because we released a special
batch of non-alcoholic wine under the same trademark,
which was not prohibited to advertise.
Nevertheless, the brand was heard and constantly
associated with our customers with one or another product.
And when they came to the store,
of course, the customers recognized the brand,
but they bought, most often, not non-alcoholic wine,
but, of course, ordinary wine of the same trademark.
Thus, such a method will help you
assess the attractiveness of a particular media carrier.
You can adapt and should adapt it
to your company, to your product.
You can replace some criteria.
You can choose a larger number of media carriers
in order to determine the popularity and
the prospectivity among your target audience.
The main thing is to understand what target audience
you are counting on and to clearly set all the numbers and points
so as not to make a mistake and to achieve
the result you planned.
Let's consider the main reasons
for the low effectiveness of advertising.
There are several of them.
The first one is, of course, the incorrect setting of the goal
and task of the advertising campaign.
What does it mean?
It means that your goals are set without numbers.
They are not clearly and concretely set.
And, of course, you cannot assess whether your campaign
has increased the market share.
According to the results of the advertising campaign,
you increased your market share by about 1%.
Is it good or bad?
Nobody knows whether it is good or bad.
Maybe the competitor increased its share by 5% at that time.
Then you were late.
That is why in order to clearly understand whether your campaign
has worked or not, you need to set goals very competently,
then you can assess whether you have worked effectively or not.
The next mistake we make
is that we do not have the information of the buyers.
We do not know where they get the information.
I will give an example.
I worked on a consulting project
with the director of a company
that produced equipment for the food industry.
The main problem was that the company's
production was not well-known to the public.
The main problem was to advertise our products.
So, advertising was done everywhere,
in principle, competently,
in industry sources,
in mass media,
at exhibitions, conferences, everything as it should be.
But there was no result.
The clients did not come.
We found out that they get the information
from their colleagues in the workshop,
consult, ask for recommendations.
And this is the main source of information
about a particular product in this case.
Therefore, ask.
This way you can optimize your resources
and not advertise everywhere.
The next mistake is the lack of feedback from the consumer.
You can evaluate the effectiveness
if you do not know where they come from,
whether they learned about you from this source.
Companies that specialize in this person
do it very well.
And they ask,
where did you learn about our company,
from which source?
Only then you can evaluate
and you will never be able to understand
whether you spent your money effectively or not.
The next main mistake is segmentation.
Very often we just forget about it.
It seems to us that we know the circle of our clients,
we know who they are, what they do, what they do.
But in fact, segmentation gives very high costs.
We shoot at the sparrows with guns
because we want to advertise for everyone.
We ask our customers.
All ages from 15 to 60 years old.
This is not segmentation.
Segmentation is the allocation of a clear group of consumers
who make certain requirements for your product.
Based on these requirements,
you can make an advertising campaign,
and not just general words, general videos, general advertising,
which will not give a result,
but will be just general information for your customers.
The next main point, which can be divided into two.
The first is low qualification of employees
who advertise for you.
Most often we save and say,
this can be done by any person.
We hire unqualified employees,
save their salary.
Or we just make those who are already in our company advertise.
But they have never faced this.
They learn for our money and spend no less
than if you paid a qualified specialist.
And the second point.
You can contact an advertising agency
and they will do this job for you.
Then your company just needs an organizer,
coordinator of activities.
This is easier and more important.
You can contact an agency,
which will work either professionally or not.
Here is the recommendation.
Choose the agency you work with carefully.
Try to work with an agency that has already had experience
in your market.
With the same goal,
so that they do not learn for your money.
The next mistake is the lack of consistency
and the lack of communication.
What does this mean?
It means that we act according to the policy of digging a hole.
We have a problem, we need to solve it.
We run to marketers and say,
guys, let's urgently do something with this.
And so we eliminate the consequences of certain actions.
We do not prevent our failures,
but we solve them.
We try to minimize all these things.
Therefore, an advertising campaign should be developed,
which takes place regularly,
which warns of the development of certain situations,
which are unfavorably reflected in our business.
In the light of mistakes,
let's look at examples of so-called stupid advertising.
These are the examples of the most common mistakes.
The first mistake is that the company does not have a plan.
These posters, these banners,
are posted on the Internet.
Here are two examples.
The first is an upside-down banner with its head down.
You know, there was an idea,
maybe they did it on purpose
to attract attention,
but then at least they wrote the phone number.
And so, imagine, who will see this ad?
And they will never read it.
The money is thrown into the wind.
Another ad.
Our company Euroseed is famous for its hypocrisy.
I don't know how to evaluate it,
whether this is stupid advertising or not.
Of course, it is remembered.
Maybe it was the purpose of the advertising campaign.
Then it's probably good.
How does it combine?
It's not clear.
Three more examples from the same series.
The first is beer advertising.
The taste of the frozen sun tells us
a slogan that is written there.
You can't come up with a more ridiculous slogan for beer.
The frozen sun gives away the coldness,
gives away something unpleasant,
negative.
Of course, it is unlikely to be in favor of this beer,
this product.
Another ad,
you know, in the style of the 40s-50s,
when the war was going on,
and there was advertising,
you signed up as a volunteer.
Here is something like that.
This is not a combined ad with a brand.
It is very interesting how the buyers of this brand
reacted to such advertising.
Another ad, car wash.
Men like it most of all.
They say that if they saw such advertising,
they would definitely stop by this car wash.
Nevertheless, you see what is written there.
No comments.
PR
Now let's move on to the consideration of PR functions.
PR or public communication
is what allows companies to maintain
their target audience,
to constantly communicate with customers.
Moreover, more often
these are free means of communication
with the media.
Attracting media,
journalists, various publications,
newspapers,
to cover the events in your company for free.
What are the main functions that PR has?
The first is, of course,
establishing trust between the company itself
and the public,
as well as as consumers
and as a media outlet.
The second is to create a positive image of the company.
After all, nothing works like that
on the image of the company,
as a positive image of the company
that performs a charity activity,
holds sponsorship projects,
constantly announces itself,
reminds about itself.
It seems, why do this?
Nevertheless, even Gazprom,
which seems to be not needed for advertising,
performs a constant PR activity,
constantly reminds about itself.
The Russian Railway Company,
for example,
performs a special activity
in the form of loyalty to the client,
in the form of a reminder,
in the form of a strong, stable, powerful image of the company.
The next point is to preserve the reputation of the company.
When is this function applied?
When there is a crisis in the company
or some negative things happen.
It is important to preserve the reputation of the company,
to come out with a proud face from any situation,
to interact with the media
and with the company itself
so that some negative information
does not seep into the market
for the clients and consumers.
The next main function is internal PR.
The employees feel that they work
in a strong and stable company.
This works to preserve the personnel reserve,
to preserve the personnel potential,
to attract new employees, more qualified,
if the company positions itself as strong,
if it constantly announces about itself.
Moreover, it works very well
for sales in this sense.
If the employees are loyal to the company,
they work better and achieve better results.
Another point is to expand the sphere of the company's influence.
It is especially important
when the owner of the company
or the manager plans
to carry out political or social activities.
Naturally, PR is more important here
because it influences the relationship
with the authorities,
with the public.
We have already said that PR is expensive
and it should be done constantly and regularly
because single programs
will not give you a targeted result.
Remember the example of expensive costumes.
If you bought an expensive costume,
it does not give you anything.
You need to go further,
to announce about yourself,
to support your business.
The company should continue this activity
by constantly supporting the opinion
of its customers at the same level,
without falling below.
What are the main stages of the development
of PR events?
There are several of them,
but we analyze them first.
We look at where and how we can hold
this campaign.
Naturally, this is followed by a task.
We must clearly understand
what we want to achieve with this event,
what we do it for,
what opinion we want to leave in the eyes of customers.
When the task is determined,
we choose the agency and develop a program.
It is great when this program is developed
for a long time, for example, for a year,
and not a one-time campaign.
In any case,
if you do it once or make a plan for a year,
the agency will need your help.
When you have made a plan,
the next step is to develop a cost.
We calculate how much we need
to implement this program.
The next step is to implement the program itself.
What I would like to say here is that
usually PR events are very clearly scheduled
and timed,
because they are strictly limited in time.
Of course, this timing must be adhered to.
In the same way,
this work together with the agency and the company
needs to be controlled.
The last and final step is to assess the event,
how it went,
what went well, what went wrong,
where we made mistakes, what we did not take into account.
This is an important point,
because any event you have held
is not only about PR,
but also about any other event you hold in the company.
These are advertising campaigns,
promotion campaigns, PR campaigns.
Put everything into the database,
create your own database,
because only by the results of certain events
you can predict the future effectiveness
and decide whether to repeat this event or not,
continue this activity or not.
You can only help the company you attract.
If they have held certain events,
they will be able to help you
and predict the future effectiveness
and the result,
whether you will get what you expect or not.
I would like to emphasize one more thing.
When assessing the event,
you must be sure that
any event related to public communication
does not give you a increase in sales for the day after tomorrow.
I have already repeated this,
but I had an experience
when we held a sponsorship event.
Our company was a sponsor of the Kremlin Cup of Ballroom Dancing.
The event was wonderful,
we had a lot of participants,
and we were able to make a lot of money.
We worked with the organizers of the event,
we were always present,
we held promotions,
we awarded winners.
Everything was great.
The only thing that upset me a little
after this event
was that the owner invited me to his house
and asked me where the increase in sales was.
I told him to warn his managers
that the increase in sales would not happen for the day after tomorrow.
This is a work on an image
that is built on a long-term basis.
What are the main methods of PR?
What actually helps us to work on this?
What events?
The first is the relationship with various journalists,
with the media, mass media, etc.
We can release various press releases,
and there is a new product,
and the press releases are usually free.
The main thing is to make an interesting press release
so that the media, newspapers, magazines,
and TV channels can tell about it.
This is interesting for your clients and consumers.
The next thing is the interaction with the media.
This is an interview with your management,
your owners, managers, top managers,
who give interviews about the company's activities,
its plans,
the results of the activities,
which are published in various magazines,
in industry magazines,
in the general economic,
in any media that your clients read.
This is a very important moment,
because they will remember you,
they will know about you,
they will talk about you.
The next method of PR is various printed products.
These are our catalogs, booklets,
press releases,
which we distribute at exhibitions,
seminars, conferences,
where we talk about our experience,
what we have achieved,
what results we have obtained,
what plans we have.
This is what we want,
this is what positions us in the eyes of our clients.
Corporate publications can also serve as a PR method.
The next one of the main methods is photo and film production.
What is it about?
It is very popular today,
because we build our trademark,
our product into certain film and photo plots.
Why?
In order to constantly remind our customers
that this is our product, this is our brand,
and how we position ourselves.
This is a very effective method,
and the costs for product placement are growing year by year.
If you buy a certain film or article
and you see that certain trademark is being repeated,
or you hear about them,
then it is definitely product placement.
The advantage of this method is that it is repeated.
You pay once,
and the film or series is released several times,
and customers constantly see it and remember your brand.
Of course,
you can buy it again and again,
gaining loyalty.
The next one of the main methods is oral speech.
This is the presentation of companies
at any public event.
Conferences, exhibitions,
press conferences,
some scientific reports.
Any speech by your company
is a PR method.
Therefore, the company must clearly monitor
where its employees are speaking,
what they are saying,
because they are currently the face of the company
and a representative of its target audience.
Another method is sponsorship.
Participation in various associations,
trade chambers,
or associations that care about social issues.
It is great if you participate in social projects
and talk about it.
It increases the image of the company on the market,
it increases its value, attractiveness
for the main customers.
Therefore, sponsorship events are very often covered.
We see it at every step.
There is a sponsor of any project.
In some cases, there are sponsors of concerts,
sponsors of orphanages,
medical institutions.
We remember and see it.
We do not forget it as customers.
If you have an opportunity to apply these methods,
I highly recommend it,
because it is a long-term work
for your positive image of the client.